we're visiting Lenovo at CES to check
out the Lenovo thinkbook plus Gen 5 and
let's go somewhere a little bit quieter
to talk about
it what now you might think me a fool
but I knew exactly what was going to
happen because this is the plus Gen 5
hybrid and what does that mean well that
means it's not just a laptop that runs
windows it's also an Android tablet and
cool anybody can dual boot Android or
emulate Android but it's not quite like
that as you may have known noticed
Windows is still
operating what the heck well they've
done some pretty clever work here and
I'm really excited to talk about it so
this laptop is powered by an Intel Core
7 Ultra 155h which puts it kind of
firmly in the thin and light category
not the most powerful processor but
still meteor like and one of Intel's
latest it also comes equipped with 32
gigs of RAM on here the laptop itself is
made of aluminum with brush aluminum on
the sides the bottom panel however is
plastic
um but it's still a very premium finish
and I think looks pretty slick it comes
with a thunderbolt 4 port on either side
as well as a combo headphone jack we
also see at the back nothing but just
some venting we have lots of vents on
the side which bodess well for cooling
almost like our sponsor thanks to be
quiet for sponsoring our 2024 CES
coverage if you're shopping for your
next PC build or just new components in
general make sure to check out be quiet
their premium products include power
supplies case fans PC cases for said
case fans all-in-one water coolers and
high performance air coolers with fruits
in Germany they've been in the industry
for more than 20 years and specialize in
making high quality parts that are hard
to hear this year at CES they're
showcasing new white PC cases white fans
and even white hard drive cages step
into the world of quiet cooling with be
quiet at the link down below and one of
the biggest giveaways is that this is a
tablet as you can see these cameras out
here we'll talk about those in a minute
let's keep on the laptop front the
laptop itself contains two speakers but
when you are docked you get to take
advantage of the additional four
speakers that are in the tablet so you
get six speakers so theoretically it
could get pretty loud who knows how good
it will sound again thin and light
laptops not exactly famous for uh sound
quality so right now we're hearing the
audio from just the two speakers in the
bottom of the laptop and listen it's
pretty loud in here and uh these don't
sound very good uh
but when we
attach our
tablet
[Music]
it starts playing the audio through all
of the speakers on the device the six
including the six on the side and the
bottom and it still sounds not that
great but you get to take advantage of a
touchscreen it comes with Lenovo stylus
you have a great touchpad but the real
cool thing is that if I if at any moment
I want to switch I can just press this
one button and
suddenly I'm an Android baby and now we
have an entirely separate l Novo tablet
we have a webcam on here and a webcam
shutter something that you typically
don't see on a tablet it uses a
Snapdragon 8 plus gen 1 which is the
highest that's currently available in
tablets it has 256 gigs of storage in
its own right and it has 12 GB of RAM on
top of the 32 GB that are already in the
laptop now those are not sharable
between the two operating systems it's
exclusive to this device so instead of
say like dual booting or even using a
virtual machine you're really literally
just running two devices that
combined into a convenient form factor
it runs Android 13 and I mean we're
talking about the tablet which is also
the screen so let's talk about that they
have a 2.8k OLED display that runs at 60
HZ clearly being a thin and light
they're not really going for the gaming
aspect it they don't even tout a GPU
you're going to be using your Snapdragon
Graphics or your Intel XE integrated
graphics on the top of the display is
where you get to find your volume
buttons you also have on the bottom here
a power button sadly there's no
fingerprint reader on this power button
or anywhere on this tablet um but it
looks like we have Windows facial
recognition it looks like you can take
advantage of face and lock I don't know
if it uses the IR sensors that it will
use for Windows hello so it might be
less secure than the windows version of
the face recognition but again still
nice to have some sort of biometric
option here and the cameras two 13
megapixel cameras that one is an ultra
wide a 0.6 times Zoom not sure exactly
the degree field of view but we can go
up to eight times but that's just
digital punches that looks
nasty um but hey it's a tablet I've
never used lenovo's camera software so
I'm not going to comment on that but uh
I I don't know what AI scan means stop
putting the word AI where it doesn't
belong Lenovo stupid but now is where
things get interesting which is how the
heck do we connect to the PC we have two
slots on each side that connect onto
these plastic posts and then here is
where we have the connection it's a
proprietary connector but it is display
port as well as we have our charging
port and and a data port for USB so if
you wanted you could transfer a file via
USB cable to your computer but that
would be super inconvenient wouldn't it
they've actually thought about that and
they include a 10 GB hybrid folder so
anything they you have saved in the
hybrid folder will be saved to both the
256 GB of storage on the tablet as well
as the 1 terab of storage on the laptop
itself it's basically doing a advanced
kind of copy function and I asked Lenovo
about the size it's only a 10 GB folder
it's not user adjustable which is a
little bit frustrating cuz say you're
maybe I don't know transferring movies
onto your tablet to watch it would be
nice to be able to have like a larger
file or if you're shooting 4K video on
those 13 megapixel cameras maybe you
have a lot of files that you want to
transfer at once or have on both it
would be nice to adjust it but I still
think it's really cool because look at
this I just take this off and I can go
to my hybrid folder here and I have the
exact same word document look at that
it's on both of them when you have the
tablet docked you get to take advantage
of the touchpad and the keyboard
but my windows is being held hostage
they also thought of this and it's not
the most elegant solution I would have
loved to see some sort of like pass
through between the two devices but if
we go to Windows we're able to use
something called hybrid stream which
will open up the Android tablet in a
window so that I can use it and you can
still use it with a mouse you can still
click a text field and type in it
it totally captures it as well as even
if I move it down here I can still use
it as a touchcreen so it's not as good
another thing to think about is that
this also has its own Bluetooth chip in
it it has its own Wi-Fi chip this is the
same deal so you can be connected with a
different set of mouse and keyboard to
the tablet or here one concern I would
have is that maybe you have you were
using it in tablet mode with your mouse
and keyboard maybe the transfer won't be
that easy I imagine Bluetooth has gotten
pretty good about multi Point
connections that the handoff should
happen I guess you would just activate
it in Windows um but this is like all
these considerations about trying to
make two devices talk together it's
pretty complex one thing we realize is
that if you turn off your laptop it's
not going to turn off both the tablet it
will just turn off your laptop so you'll
have to remember to turn off both of
them however if I press it just to put
it to sleep does that put both of them
to sleep like if I lock
it I mean it's acting as a single
computer now so we should be able to
turn it back on we're back now one thing
that they want to make sure that you
don't do is carry this from the top of
it and accidentally lose the Bottom by
dropping it you know that would be
tragic you're going to break a nice
piece of Hardware so they actually do
have a
limit if you go too far back your tablet
is now locked in so I can pick it up
like
this um if it's less than that or if
it's closed like this I can't pull the
top off by accident when I'm trying to
shut it closed pretty nice obviously
there's still a little bit of software
Kinks to work out for them but they got
time it's coming out in Q2 of this year
and it's going to be retailing for
$19.99 they're only going to have the
one skew it's not going to be
customizable it's just going to be 32
gigs of RAM with the uh Intel Core i7
Ultra H sorry core Ultra 7 uh the 1 TB
Drive the Qualcomm gen 1 plus in there
the 256 gigs of storage plus 12 gigs of
RAM uh plus the cameras it's a lot
actually for a $2,000 product it's
pretty dang cool you also get the you
also get this guy it's a slim and light
form factor what you what do you want
it's a goodlooking display they
definitely got a good looking display
for me what I think is really exciting
about this is just there's so many use
cases that like we could come up with
right like think about this say you're
uh somebody who has to do some rendering
or you letting a program compile and
it's using up a lot of your resources on
your laptop you can always just switch
to your tablet and then then do other
stuff like red documentation or anything
else that you need there um it also just
gives you the benefit of carrying only
one thing if you are somebody who likes
to carry a lot of devices you just have
to get your laptop the weight of it
surprisingly uh small man this is so
cool and while there is two batteries in
this technically it's not like the
tablet's going to charge your laptop
obviously the laptop's going to pass
through energy to get to the display and
it will charge the tablet so it's not
like you get a little bit of extra
battery life on the window side in the
event that your Windows machine runs out
of battery you can switch to your tablet
and still get work done it's pretty
smart for me this is the most convincing
two in-1 laptop I've seen yet I've
always found that folding laptops 180
makes them feel kind of bulky and makes
them really hard to use as a tablet but
being able to just pull out and have
your whole system in here and here
solves a all the problems cuz Windows
has done this before right the surface
lineup involved attaching a whole tablet
like I think the original Sur Pro or
something was a big tablet all of the
internals were in the back and you'd
attach it to like a a headless base that
didn't do anything which was a similar
idea but it solves the problem of making
the bottom be like a useless keyboard
it's a whole other machine and the price
is fairly reasonable you get two devices
and a pen but you know what else is
reasonable subscribing to Short Circuit
thank you so much for watching uh if you
want more CES coverage I don't know
maybe this will be the last one that
comes out who knows but subscribe